:title: Floating Toilets: To Boldy "Go" Where Noone has Been Able to Go Before
:org: Wetlands Work!
:website: http://wetlandswork.com
:location: Phnom Phen, Cambodia
:skills: product design, sanitation, fluid mechanics, appropriate technology, manufacturing
:id: CWH0
:status: hidden
:template: project-page

Wetlands Work Ltd is a social enterprise based in Cambodia, working on
sanitation and wastewater treatment. The HandyPod is novel sanitation solution
developed by Wetlands Work! for users in floating villages. Floating villages
on Cambodia's Tonle Sap lake are communities of varying sizes, with up to
several thousand households each, and dwellings in such communities are kept
afloat with a mix of bamboo, clay jars, fifty gallon metal drums, and other
means. To this day, no sanitation system has been available for floating
households.  Conventional pit latrines cannot be installed as the houses are
moved on the lake with the seasons, and the water level of the lake fluctuates
between 0.5 m and 10 m annually.

The HandyPod is a floating system that sequesters and treats the sewage from a
floating house. We have refined the design over several years of testing the
system in a floating village and are currently piloting a sanitation marketing
approach to making the system available to users in floating communities.

A current research need is the refinement of some aspects of the design. For
example, the system currently uses rigid PVC piping for conveyance, which may
not be the optimal solution for system life-span. Various substitutions of
materials and adjustments to the manufacturing and assembly process may be
possible to decrease the cost of the system and increase its longevity. A
parallel design issue is to adapt the system to stilted houses. With stilted
houses, the conveyance of waste from the latrine pan to the treatment module is
a challenge due to the drastic fluctuations in water level over the course of
the year.

The desired outcomes of efforts on these issues would include design and
fabrication of prototypes that improve on the current design, which could be
piloted in floating communities, and ideally result in higher uptake of
sanitation products in floating villages.

Other requirements
------------------

The team will be responsible for communicating through video conferencing with
the sponsors in the Cambodian timezone. It would also be ideal if the students
in this project enroll in D-Lab_ for the Winter and Spring quarters.

.. _D-Lab: http://piet.ucdavis.edu/?page_id=12
