:title: Meetings
:status: hidden

Each team will be assigned a teaching assistant that will act as a consultant
for your project. During the winter studio sections, each team will meet with
the teaching assistant for approximately 20 minutes each week to discuss the
weekly progress and/or the current studio activity. Additionally, your team
will meet with the main instructor for approximately 10 minutes. In the Spring
quarter, you will meet with the TA and the instructor together for 50 minutes
per week.

To prepare for the meeting, you are required to send an update email to the
instructor, your assigned TA, your client, all of your teammates, and anyone
else that is directly involved in your project 24 hours before the beginning of
the meeting. The subject line of the email should be as follows:

``[EME185] AIO: <team name>``

where "<team name>" is replaced with your team's name.

"AIO" stands for Accomplishments, Issues, and Objectives. This email should
contain three bullet lists:

1. what your team **A**ccomplished in the previous week,
2. what **I**ssues you encountered during that week and would like help with, and finally
3. what your **O**bjectives are for the coming week.

Both the accomplishments and objectives sections should indicate who worked on
(or will work on) each item and how much time that person spent (or will spend)
on that item. Lastly, this document should include a snapshot of your `Gantt
Chart <{filename}/pages/gantt-chart.rst>`_ with a vertical line indicating the
date of the meeting and the percent complete of each task in the chart. For
tips on creating a good snapshot see the `Gantt Chart page
<{filename}/pages/gantt-chart.rst>`_. The accomplishments and objectives in
your AIO should match up with your Gantt Chart. For the Spring quarter, print
this out and bring it to your meeting.

**Your in-class grade will be affected if you don't send an AIO or if you don't
show up to these meetings.**

In the Spring quarter, this will be the standard meeting agenda:

10 minutes
   Go over your accomplishments from the week with the instructors. Be sure to
   bring things to show us, for example photos and videos of the parts you've
   created or the experiments you run and the results of calculations,
   simulations, and experiments. You job is to teach us about what you've done.
   These accomplishments should reflect the goals and tasks in your Gantt
   Chart.
20 minutes
   Explain the issues for the week with the instructors. We will work with you
   on solutions to these problems. Be prepared to show us the details so that
   we can effectively help you. We will work on problems with you, help you
   redesign things, or anything else you may need.
10 minutes
   Review your Gantt Chart with the instructors and explain the current status.
   If you are ahead, explain how you will reallocate resources for the coming
   weeks, if you are behind be prepared to discuss strategies for getting back
   on target.
10 minutes
   Anything else that needs to be discussed.

The instructors are here to help you succeed. You are guaranteed this hour with
us and you have our full attention and help. But we also highly recommend
utilizing office hours with the instructors to help you further.
