:title: Memos
:status: hidden

In general, you will create weekly memos that document your team's
accomplishments and progress. The memos should all be turned in to Smartsite
Assignments by midnight on the respective due date (typically Sundays).

Each memo should stand on its own and you will be able to use the content as a
base to develop the reports. In addition to turning in the assignment, you are
welcome to share these memos with your project sponsor(s) for feedback but the
main audience are the course instructors.

The memos should have no more than three pages of main content and an optional
two pages of appendices. The "main content" is defined as the essential text,
figures, tables, etc. to tell your story. Additionally, feel free to link to
rich media: videos, websites, demos, etc. This main content should stand on its
own without the appendices. The appendices can include figures, tables,
drawings, renderings, source code, and other relevant material to support the
story told in your main content pages if the reader desires to understand
further details. The appendices should not be required to understand the main
content.

- Each memo must be submitted as a single PDF document made up of 8.5" x 11"
  sheets to Smartsite. **You will be docked points if you submit a format other
  than PDF.**
- Your group is free to use any software you prefer to prepare the documents.
- They should be treated as a professional documents and formatted as such.
- The audience you should write for is a technically competent reader, e.g.
  another engineering colleague or engineering management, and/or your project
  sponsor.

Memo 1: Project Selection [Due: Friday, January 8, 2016]
========================================================

This "memo" will be in the form of a CATME Team Maker Survey and your résumé.
You will receive and notice via email and will need to fill out the survey on
the CATME website. Your resume should be turned in via Smartsite as a PDF.
**Note that your résumé should not exceed more that two pages.**

Memo 2: Specifications [Due: Sunday, January 17, 2016]
======================================================

The purpose of this memo is to summarize what you have learned from your
project sponsor about their needs and desired outcomes. Your should use the
initial conversations with the sponsor to learn much as possible. The memo's
purpose will then be to communicate the sponsor's needs in your own language as
you understand them. Suggestions of what to include:

- Summary of the problem
- Constraints
- User stories
- Initial thoughts on solution paths

Memo 3: Concept Generation and Existing Solutions [Due: Sunday, January 24, 2016]
=================================================================================

TBA

Memo 4: Preliminary Analysis [Due: Sunday, Feburary 4, 2016]
============================================================

TBA

Memo 5: Concept Selection [Due: Sunday, Feburary 4, 2016]
=========================================================

TBA

Memo 6: Product Architecture [Due: Sunday, Feburary 4, 2016]
============================================================

TBA

Memo 7: TBA [Due: Sunday, March 6, 2016]
========================================

TBA
