:title: Sponsor Guide
:status: hidden

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 1

Thank you for submitting a proposal for the 2017 UCD MAE Department's
Mechanical Engineering Capstone Design Course. We have reviewed your proposal
and believe that it will be a suitable project for a team of our engineering
students to tackle. This letter is intended to give you an idea of what to
expect in the relationships with the student team, the instructors, and the
department. This is a long email, but please read carefully so that we are all
on the same page. If you are not comfortable with what is presented below it is
OK not to participate from here on forward. If you need clarification before
proceeding just let me know.

The primary educational goal of this course is for the students to demonstrate
their ability to realize a viable mechanical design based on a given client's
needs using the skills they have developed throughout our curriculum.
Concurrently, you, the client, will gain a solution for your need and develop
a, hopefully lasting, relationship with our students. By participating you are
supporting the educational process, will have first contact with potential new
hires, may get a new approach to your problem/project, or possibly a valuable
tangible outcome.

How It Works
============

The course starts on January 9th, 2018 and ends on June 14th, 2018 with spring
break at the midpoint between two eleven week quarters. The students spend the
first half learning about the design process, researching, gathering, and
synthesizing information, testing ideas, developing initial designs, and
drafting a proposal for you. The second quarter is spent finalizing the design
deliverables and *potentially* developing a prototype and testing it. You, the
client, will play a critical role over this period by providing the students
with information, feedback, and/or mentorship. More details about the course
can be found on my `course website`_.

.. _course website: http://moorepants.github.io/eme185/

Before the course starts, I will contact you by phone/email or visit you in
person to discuss your project. Some of the projects may need some adjustments
to redefine the scope either to ensure that it is feasible, to best highlight
our students' skills, or to ensure that it aligns well with the flow of the
course. Once the project is well defined and the class starts, I will match
projects with student teams based on their skills and preferences during the
first week of class. Note that we currently have 26 proposals and will only be
able to match 22 of the projects due to the current course enrollment. It is
possible your project will not be matched to a group.

The Client's Role
=================

If your project is selected, your student team will approach you at the
beginning of the course to arrange for an informational interview to learn more
about your specific need. This can happen through a site visit [1]_ or via
phone/video conferencing. Over the next 23 weeks, the students will communicate
with you regularly for information gathering purposes and feedback on their
design progress. In particular, you will receive a weekly email update and
copies of their periodic memos and reports. If you can provide technical
mentorship, the students may desire more of your time. We expect that you will
be reasonably available for the students over the period of the course. The
minimum for success is likely around one meeting per week. The more you
interact with the students, the higher likelihood of a solution that meets
and/or exceeds your expectations. We will work to make sure that the students
in turn will give their best effort to deliver a working design and/or
prototype, communicate effectively with you about their process, and be
respectful of your time. If your schedule permits, you may also join the
weekly meetings the students have with the instructors.

The Instructors' Roles
======================

My primary role as the instructor will be to guide the students through the
design process and to provide technical feedback. My teaching assistants and I
will work with the students to define the scope of the project and to set
deliverables for periodic review. This process works best when early focus is
on the client need, so that students do not go into the project with a
preconceived solution in mind. In fact, they are encouraged to consider
multiple possible solution strategies before settling on one to implement. Your
support of this process is encouraged.

Expectations of the Students
============================

Our students' goal will be to deliver your and their mutually agreed upon
expected outcome. The instructors will work to hold them accountable in their
agreements with you but it is important that the clients recognize that this is
a learning process for the students. The course provides a relatively safe
environment for failure which is an essential part of learning. With that said,
all we can ultimately guarantee to you from our student teams is a written
report detailing their design. But most teams rise to the occasion and are able
to develop working prototypes by the course's end. Keep in mind that the
students are working on designs and prototypes, which are by definition **not a
consumer ready product**. It is important to also be aware that out of our
100-160 students in the course each year we do occasionally have a team that
underperforms.

Funding
=======

Our course requires resources and funding to remain sustainable. The prototypes
and administration needs are funded primarily by in-kind donations from you,
the clients. At the minimum, if you desire a prototype, we asked that you
cover the funds for the necessary parts, materials, and any necessary external
labor. At a maximum, we ask that you make a general donation to our program. A
typical industry donation is $3000. We do not exclude non-profit and charitable
organizations that lack funds, even for the basic prototype costs. We accept
donations on a sliding scale and there are some potential internal funding
mechanisms that we can reach out to if your project fits certain criteria [2]_.
Please contact me if you have funding needs you cannot meet.

Intellectual Property
=====================

The issue of intellectual property ownership on potentially patentable projects
sometimes arises. The position of the university is that undergraduate students
that invent something as part of a class own the intellectual property. If the
project uses significant university resources outside the scope of the class
the university may have rights to make partial claims to the invention. You,
the client, must initiate a dialogue with the instructor and students early on
if you if you have any intellectual property needs and constraints.
Additionally, we are not yet well equipped to host projects that require full
confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. If you have this need, please
let me know as soon as possible.

Conclusion
==========

Finally, we would love for you to visit the university during the students'
design reviews, presentations, and the poster sessions and demos at the
`College of Engineering Design Showcase`_. Past clients have participated on
our design review panels and for the Showcase's judging panels. We will send
periodic invitations to these events.

.. _`College of Engineering Design Showcase`: http://engineering.ucdavis.edu/undergraduate/senior-engineering-design-showcase/

Above all, communication is the key to a successful design experience. If you
have any questions or concerns you are welcome to contact me at any time.


.. [1] We are not able to fund student travel, so if your organization is not in
   Davis and you can support at least one site visit this can be a very
   valuable learning experience for the students.
.. [2] For example, if your project is clinical in nature check with us about
   working through the Clinical and Translational Science Center.
